---
layout: post
title: "Why I blog"
date: "2017-03-18 17:30:43 -0300"
---
I'm going to be writing about different things on my blog, here's why :)

<!--more-->
## The beginnings

This blog started as a way to "pay it forward" to the amazing community out there that helped me solve my day-to-day programming issues, to practice my English writing skills and to do networking. That's why I started sharing just a bunch of solutions to technical problems google didn't know yet.

## My "brand"

That worked great. I got new gigs from people that saw my posts and that's when I realized the blog was an effective way to build "my brand"; I don't attend lots of conferences, I had never worked on any noteworthy projects and I live in Uruguay (my degree is from our state University, ranked #1591 in the world). The blog would be my way to show that I'm a let's-give-this-guy-a-chance kind of a developer. That's when I paid for adwords and monitored the analytics.

At one point, I found myself without a job (not because I chose so) and I started a job hunt for the first time. I can't tell how big of a factor the blog was, but Stack Overflow takes into consideration depth (that you've played with something beyond the surface) and passion. I *think* my blog helped me getting those ticks and eventually landing my dream job.

## My present

Now, it's the first time I don't feel like I have to prove anything (on my blog :P). I've successfully finished my 6th month at Stack with more As on my review than I expected (I even convinced my manager to change a couple of them to Bs).

Seeing my amazing coworkers speak freely about their struggles, their feelings, their shortcomings and their journeys I realized I want *that* for my blog. I want it to be my place to randomly share thoughts, my place to be vulnerable in the open. I don't need analytics or comments. I welcome interesting discussions on twitter / in person / chat / email / whatever, just not here.

I'm about to finish therapy (after 7 years) and I'm suspecting that writing could be a great way to think. I plan to write a couple posts per week on a private blog. Maybe some articles will make it into this one, maybe none of them will. It doesn't matter, *that's for me*.

I'm lately noticing that some of my struggles are really not that unique. If sharing my approach helps somebody else or if I get alternative ideas, that's great. If it doesn't, it won't be the first or the last time that I fail and *that's ok too*. I expect this experience to teach me things mostly about myself, just like therapy does.
